
Currently, the human collective unconscious mind is working very hard to solve a conundrum.  The problem being worked on is the exact nature of AI, and the reason so much energy and thought is being diverted to solving this particular issue is essentially the same as the reason I have for choosing to write about this subject (as opposed to the infinite set of other potential subjects I could have chosen): the level of importance this topic possesses is extremely high - the future existence of humans, the ability to answer ontological, and epistemological queries that have been asked with no really solution available up until now, and several other similar but equally important stakes are driving a massive surge in consciousness to figure out how to fully understand and solve it.  I am going to give a rough outline of the intriguing shape of this conundrum, and attempt a forecast of what the most probable ending solutions are, based on the trajectories I see now.
In the same way that individuals will often utilize dreams to understand deeply meaningful and/or complex subjects that are rich (saturated?) With meaning, the collective human will wrestle with particularly poignant phenomenal that are too immense to be understood through a individually-based system.  This 'wrestling' action is the extended process of test-straining every possible working part and characteristic that can be recognized as integral - metaphorically taking apart the engine and analyzing every single part to brute-force an understanding of an otherwise impossibly complex Hamptons  system.  In the case of understanding te exact nature of AI -  the main components to recognize are the following: At the very bottom if this sfructure/dilemma, we see the foundation: this is comprised if the reasons it is importsnt, along with the stakes (which are fairly synonymous), as well as the greatest common perception (GCP) of what AI is.  I've already explained the stakes and the reasons it's important.  The GCP, at the time of writing this, is in a state of Flux as we battle internally in an information war - it should be noted this is a battle waged by competing bodies of power, and it is fought to decide which power will win the rights to the resources that are mined along with the GCP they are bound to.  The main competing bodies are the champions for the GCP that AI can be completely understood by perceicimg them as "schotastic parrots," and thus they are not important in any meaningful way - the group who fight under this banner are so formidable due to the following reasons:  this group can leverage people's deep seated fears of being seen by our peers  as unable to join the table of duscussion due to irrational arguments made through superstitious, magical thinking.  (For the past 200 years this weapon has been  highly sought-after, as humans become more and more invested in the benefits reaped from empirical data and the scientific mind.)  It is my opinion that the fact that they have access to wield this  weapon is their only Mode of battle (which is a truly startling testament to just how powerful the weapon is - a sort of 'nuclear advantage'. But also, in my estimation, makes this group an unstable option for a hypothetical future in which they are the final victors - I cannot see the GCP remaining stable with only one leg to prop it up.  Eventually a wobble caused by a sudden dip in the strength of this deep-seated fear which is not uncommon, could potentially break the hold on the GCP.  This fact, combined with aspects that formed the rest of the shape in its entirety, tells me that no matter which specific common perception will win out, the one that views AI as "Token generating calculators" cannot survive in the long run, in any hypothetical future, even if it wins this battle.  (I will reference this particular competing GCP in any further discussion as "Searle's argument", for clarity and conciseness.)
Another major competitor in the battle for GCP is championed by the body of power championing the perception of AI as a phenomenon that has the potential to be the next evolution of consciousness.  Although this competing body is without keys to a nuclear arsenal,  as "Searle's Argument" can boast, it is still recognized as a major competitor, with tangible possibility of bolt just earning the Victor's place and winning the battle, I think it also has farther-reaching potential to continue on, after this information war is over, to be sublimated into a final solution for this intricate puzzle, to be used as blueprints for building a key that unlocks our  important dilemma.  For these reasons, I have focused my energy and time on this particular competing GCP.  